Implement API for Inference Endpoints (#1779)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/source/en/package_reference/inference_endpoints.md

# Inference Endpoints

> Inference Endpoints offers a secure production solution to easily deploy any `transformers`, `sentence-transformers` and `diffuser` models from the Hub on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inference Endpoints offers a secure production solution to easily deploy any 🤗 Transformers, sentence-transformers, and 🤗 Diffusers models from the Hub on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face.
```

Author: FYI, I actually copy-pasted the introduction from https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/index. Personal feeling, but I preferred to get rid of all the :hugs: as I feel they slow down the reading without bringing much (there were 7 :hugs: in the initial version :confused:)
So I'd prefer to keep it as it is if that is fine with you.

```suggestion
Inference Endpoints offers a secure production solution to easily deploy any `transformers`, `sentence-transformers`, and `diffusers` models from the Hub on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face.
```

> A Hugging Face Endpoint is built from a [Hugging Face Model Repository](https://huggingface.co/models). When an Endpoint is created, the service creates image artifacts that are either built from the model you select or a custom-provided container image. The image artifacts are completely decoupled from the Hugging Face Hub source repositories to ensure the highest security and reliability levels.

Reviewer: Did you mean the Endpoint is built from a model stored on the Hub?

```suggestion
An Inference Endpoint is built from a model from the [Hub](https://huggingface.co/models). When an Endpoint is created, the service creates image artifacts that are either built from the model you selected or a custom-provided container image. The image artifacts are completely decoupled from the Hub source repositories to ensure the highest security and reliability levels.
```

> 🤗 Inference Endpoints support all of the `transformers`, `sentence-transformers` and `diffuser` tasks as well as custom tasks not supported by `transformers` yet like speaker diarization and diffusion.

Reviewer: Maybe remove diffusion as an example since its supported by the 🤗 Diffusers library and not 🤗 Transformers. Super minor nit, but also standardizing whether we're using an emoji with Inference Endpoints. I'm happy with either way, but since Inference Endpoints was introduced without an emoji, I'll stick with that convention here :)

```suggestion
Inference Endpoints support all of the 🤗 Transformers, sentence-transformers, and 🤗 Diffusers tasks, as well as custom tasks not supported by 🤗 Transformers yet, like speaker diarization.
```

Author: I'll remove the :hugs:, thanks for raising the question :)

```suggestion
Inference Endpoints support all of the `transformers`, `sentence-transformers` and `diffusers` tasks as well as custom tasks not supported by `transformers` yet like speaker diarization.
```

Reviewer 2: yes let's go easy on the emojis...

In addition, 🤗 Inference Endpoints gives you the option to use a custom container image managed on an external service, for instance, [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/), [AWS ECR](https://aws.amazon.com/fr/ecr/?nc1=h_ls), [Azure ACR](https://azure.microsoft.com/de-de/products/container-registry/), or [Google GCR](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry?hl=de).

<Tip>

> This page is only a package reference about `huggingface_hub`'s integration with Inference Endpoints. For more information about Inference Endpoints product, check out its [official documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/index).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page is only a reference for `huggingface_hub`'s integration with Inference Endpoints. For more information about the Inference Endpoints product, check out its [official documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/index).
```

</Tip>

> ## API

Reviewer: I think we can remove this section header since its clear we're already here on the API page.

> Inference Endpoints can be fully managed via API. The endpoints are documented using Swagger and can be found [here](https://api.endpoints.huggingface.cloud/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inference Endpoints can be fully managed via API. The endpoints are documented with [Swagger](https://api.endpoints.huggingface.cloud/).
```

> ### Methods

Reviewer: Then we can change these to level 2 headers

> A subset of the features is implemented in [`HfApi`] and in particular:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A subset of the Inference Endpoint features are implemented in [`HfApi`]:
```

- [`get_inference_endpoint`] and [`list_inference_endpoints`] to get information about your Inference Endpoints
- [`create_inference_endpoint`], [`update_inference_endpoint`] and [`delete_inference_endpoint`] to deploy and manage Inference Endpoints
- [`pause_inference_endpoint`] and [`resume_inference_endpoint`] to pause and resume an Inference Endpoint

> - [`scale_to_zero_inference_endpoint`] to scale the endpoint to 0 replicas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`scale_to_zero_inference_endpoint`] to scale an Endpoint to 0 replicas
```

### InferenceEndpoint

> The main dataclass is [`InferenceEndpoint`]. It contains information about a deployed InferenceEndpoint, including its configuration and current state. Once deployed, you can run inference on the endpoint using [`InferenceEndpoint.client`] and [`InferenceEndpoint.async_client`] properties that return respectively an [`InferenceClient`] and an [`AsyncInferenceClient`] object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main dataclass is [`InferenceEndpoint`]. It contains information about a deployed `InferenceEndpoint`, including its configuration and current state. Once deployed, you can run inference on the Endpoint using the  [`InferenceEndpoint.client`] and [`InferenceEndpoint.async_client`] properties that respectively return an [`InferenceClient`] and an [`AsyncInferenceClient`] object.
```

[[autodoc]] InferenceEndpoint

### InferenceEndpointStatus

[[autodoc]] InferenceEndpointStatus

### InferenceEndpointType

[[autodoc]] InferenceEndpointType

> ###

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### InferenceEndpointException
```

# Inference Endpoints

> Inference Endpoints offers a secure production solution to easily deploy any `transformers`, `sentence-transformers`, and `diffusers` models from the Hub on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face.

Author: I took that part from the official documentation there: https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/main/en/index

> Inference Endpoints offers a secure production solution to easily deploy any `transformers`, `sentence-transformers`, and `diffusers` models from the Hub on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face.

Reviewer 3: those models are what we defaultly support without custom handler or container. But not limiting.

> Inference Endpoints offers a secure production solution to easily deploy any `transformers`, `sentence-transformers`, and `diffusers` models from the Hub on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face.

Reviewer 4: Maybe wording could be improved, when I read this at first it's not clear to me that you can run any model

> Inference Endpoints offers a secure production solution to easily deploy any `transformers`, `sentence-transformers`, and `diffusers` models from the Hub on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face.

Author: I've changed the wording in https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/pull/1779/commits/168885134fe9a74974bbad477ff767e6a7971579 to be more generic:

> Inference Endpoints provides a secure production solution to easily deploy models on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face. An Inference Endpoint is built from a model from the [Hub](https://huggingface.co/models). This page is a reference for `huggingface_hub`'s integration with Inference Endpoints. For more information about the Inference Endpoints product, check out its [official documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/index).

Keeping it vague on purpose. If the user wants more details about supported models, the [official Inference Endpoints documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/index) should be the appropriate location to list them. These docs are referenced twice from the `huggingface_hub`'s doc (from this PR) so should be fine.

> An Inference Endpoint is built from a model from the [Hub](https://huggingface.co/models). When an Endpoint is created, the service creates image artifacts that are either built from the model you selected or a custom-provided container image. The image artifacts are completely decoupled from the Hub source repositories to ensure the highest security and reliability levels.

Reviewer 4: Docker images are not created on deploy, we load the model in a init container from a base image we built or the image provided by the user.

Inference Endpoints support all of the `transformers`, `sentence-transformers` and `diffusers` tasks as well as custom tasks not supported by `transformers` yet like speaker diarization.

> In addition, Inference Endpoints gives you the option to use a custom container image managed on an external service, for instance, [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/), [AWS ECR](https://aws.amazon.com/fr/ecr/?nc1=h_ls), [Azure ACR](https://azure.microsoft.com/de-de/products/container-registry/), or [Google GCR](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry?hl=de).

Reviewer 4: and github container registry as well! :)

<Tip>

This page is only a reference for `huggingface_hub`'s integration with Inference Endpoints. For more information about the Inference Endpoints product, check out its [official documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/index).

</Tip>

> Inference Endpoints can be fully managed via API. The endpoints are documented with [Swagger](https://api.endpoints.huggingface.cloud/).

Reviewer 4: Could be interesting to add here that the `InferenceClient` is a python implementation of that swagger

## Methods

A subset of the Inference Endpoint features are implemented in [`HfApi`]:

- [`get_inference_endpoint`] and [`list_inference_endpoints`] to get information about your Inference Endpoints
- [`create_inference_endpoint`], [`update_inference_endpoint`] and [`delete_inference_endpoint`] to deploy and manage Inference Endpoints
- [`pause_inference_endpoint`] and [`resume_inference_endpoint`] to pause and resume an Inference Endpoint

> - [`scale_to_zero_inference_endpoint`] to scale an Endpoint to 0 replicas

Reviewer 4: to forcefully/manually scale an Endpoint to 0
